# AWS Lake Formation
AWS Lake Formation is a service that makes it easy to set up a secure [[data lake]] in days. A data lake is a centralized, curated, and secured repository that stores all your data, both in its original form and prepared for analysis. A data lake enables you to break down data silos and combine different types of analytics to gain insights and guide better business decisions.
However, setting up and managing data lakes today involves a lot of manual, complicated, and timeconsuming tasks. This work includes loading data from diverse sources, monitoring those data flows,
setting up partitions, turning on encryption and managing keys, defining transformation jobs and monitoring their operation, re-organizing data into a columnar format, configuring access control settings, deduplicating redundant data, matching linked records, granting access to data sets, and auditing access over time.
Creating a data lake with Lake Formation is as simple as defining where your data resides and what data access and security policies you want to apply. Lake Formation then collects and catalogs data from databases and object storage, moves the data into your new Amazon S3 data lake, cleans and classifies data using machine learning algorithms, and secures access to your sensitive data. Your users can then
access a centralized catalog of data which describes available data sets and their appropriate usage. Your users then leverage these data sets with their choice of analytics and machine learning services, like [[Amazon EMR]] for Apache Spark, [[Amazon Redshift]], [[Amazon Athena]], SageMaker, and [[Amazon QuickSight]].

[[AWS analytics]]